Improve sync (#3090)
modelica/ModelicaSpecification: chapters/synchronous.tex

\emph{Connected components}) of this graph with appropriate definition of
the incidence operator.

An special case is the built-in variable \lstinline!time! (see \cref{built-in-variable-time}).

> Each use of \lstinline!time! is conceptually included as a separate variable in this analysis, \lstinline!$\text{time}_i$! with \lstinline!der($\text{time}_i$)=1!.

Reviewer: Formatting:
```suggestion
Each use of \lstinline!time! is conceptually included as a separate variable in this analysis, $\mathit{time}_i$ with $\text{\lstinline!der!}(\mathit{time}_{i}) = 1$.
```

> Each use of \lstinline!time! is conceptually included as a separate variable in this analysis, $\mathit{time}_i$ with $\text{\lstinline!der!}(\mathit{time}_{i}) = 1$.

Reviewer: Is it obvious that this is a trivial change?  Couldn't `time` have been defined using `interval()` instead to avoid the need for discretization?  Just asking.

Author: There are always alternatives.

However, as I understand it: forbidding direct use of time for the non-discretized variant was part of the design goal (since expressions such as `time>=0.2` have issues with numerical noise that we want to avoid), and you can see that examples use `sample(time)`; and clearly that is one option - but that clashes too much with having every continuous model in a sampled systems. Thus the above keeps the previous intentions.

Reviewer: I suppose it comes down to whether you want the use of `time` to imply the need for time discretization and a `solverMethod`, or if you want to be able to use `time` in a clocked discrete-time partition?

Author: Yes. And it is clear that the original design was to not allow `time `directly in clocked discrete-time partitions (to offer stronger guarantees for synchronous), and this keeps that design - while still allowing `time `with `solverMethod`, since it is not worse than a differential equation.

Author: @bernhard-thiele @MartinOtter Do you have any input on this?

Author: 11 days. I guess not

\end{nonnormative}

\begin{nonnormative}

> It is not defined, how events are handled that appear when solving the continuous-time partition.

Reviewer: Maybe rephrase a little?
```suggestion
It is not defined how to handle events that are triggered while solving the continuous-time partition.
```

> For example, a tool could handle events in the same way as for a usual simulation - but only check them at the time associated with clock-ticks.

Reviewer: En-dash:
```suggestion
For example, a tool could handle events in the same way as for a usual simulation -- but only check them at the time associated with clock-ticks.
```

Such a partition has to be solved with a \emph{solver method} of \cref{solver-methods}.
When \lstinline!previous(x)! is used on a continuous-time state variable \lstinline!x!, then \lstinline!previous(x)! uses the start value of \lstinline!x! as value for the first clock tick.

> The use of the operator sample from \cref{event-related-operators-with-function-syntax} in a clocked partition is problematic.

Reviewer: Formatting:
```suggestion
The use of the operator \lstinline!sample! from \cref{event-related-operators-with-function-syntax} in a clocked partition is problematic.
```

> Diagnostics are appropriate especially if it is intended to generate sampling faster than the clocks, and otherwise the sampling should ideally be adjusted to the clock ticks.

Reviewer: To me it seems that this is a normative change that should require a language group decision, as the previous state didn't make clear that the problematic `sample` really is allowed.

Author: I can separate out that to another PR, to have a clearer base for discussion.

Reviewer: Sounds like a good idea.

Author: This has now been done.

Author: Which makes this PR unproblematic.

Reviewer: Moved to #3099.  Resolving.

> \begin{nonnormative}

Reviewer: Empty lines on both sides of `nonnormative` increase readability of the source:
```suggestion

\begin{nonnormative}
```

Reviewer: Neither resolved nor commented.  Marked as resolved by mistake?

Author: No, I believe it was merged, **and then** that entire sample-part was cut out to a separate PR #3099 - where you can see the empty lines.

Reviewer: OK, resolving.

> Since the goal is that it should be possible to use \emph{every} continuous-time Modelica model, it is not forbidden.

Reviewer: It may not be obvious what kind of use this refers to;
```suggestion
Since the goal is that it should be possible to use \emph{every} continuous-time Modelica model synchronously, it is not forbidden.
```

I'm afraid that this way of using _synchronously_ could be new, and maybe we should try to stick with some other formation that is already in use?

Author: Reused 'sampled data control system' from section introduction.

Reviewer: Obsolete after breaking out this part as a separate PR.  Resolving.
